experiments/8_vllmeval/README.md, before:

# VLLM Evaluation on Vision-Language Benchmarks

This directory contains the implementation for evaluating EO-1 on multiple vision-language benchmarks using the VLMEvalKit framework.

## Overview

The evaluation covers three comprehensive benchmarks designed to test different aspects of vision-language understanding:

### Benchmarks

- **EO-Bench**: End-to-end evaluation benchmark for embodied AI tasks
- **ERQABench**: Embodied Reasoning and Question Answering benchmark
- **RoboVQA**: Robotic Visual Question Answering benchmark

These benchmarks test the model's ability to:

- Understand complex visual scenes and spatial relationships
- Answer questions about robotic manipulation tasks
- Reason about cause-and-effect relationships in embodied scenarios
- Process multi-modal inputs (images, videos, text) effectively

## Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Download model and datasets
bash experiments/8_vllmeval/download_all.sh

# 2. Install VLMEvalKit
git clone https://github.com/DelinQu/VLMEvalKit
cd VLMEvalKit
pip install -e .

# 3. Configure evaluation
cp experiments/8_vllmeval/dataset-config.json VLMEvalKit/configs/

# 4. Run evaluation
bash experiments/8_vllmeval/run.sh
```

## Dataset and Model Preparation

### 1. Download EO-1-3B Model

```bash
# Install Hugging Face CLI if not already installed
pip install huggingface-cli

# Download EO-1-3B model
huggingface-cli download --resume-download --local-dir-use-symlinks False \
  IPEC-COMMUNITY/EO-1-3B \
  --local-dir EO-1-3B
```

### 2. Download Benchmark Datasets

```bash
cd YOUR_PATH_TO_DATASET

# Download all benchmark datasets
datasets=(
  ERQABench
  RoboVQA
  EO-Bench
)

HF_DATASET_HOME=YOUR_PATH_TO_DATASET

for dataset in ${datasets[@]};
do
  echo "Downloading ${dataset}..."
  huggingface-cli download \
  --repo-type dataset --resume-download --local-dir-use-symlinks False \
  IPEC-COMMUNITY/${dataset} \
  --local-dir ${HF_DATASET_HOME}/${dataset}
done
```

**Note**: The datasets are quite large (several GB each), so ensure you have sufficient disk space and a stable internet connection.

## VLMEvalKit Installation

### Install VLMEvalKit

```bash
# Clone the VLMEvalKit repository
git clone https://github.com/DelinQu/VLMEvalKit
cd VLMEvalKit

# Install in development mode
pip install -e .

# Install additional dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Verify installation
python -c "import vlmeval; print('VLMEvalKit installed successfully')"
```

## Evaluation Configuration

### Model and Dataset Configuration

Create a configuration file (`dataset-config.json`) with the following settings:

```json
{
  "model": {
    "EO1-3B": {
      "class": "EO1VisionFlowMatchingChat",
      "min_pixels": 50176,
      "max_pixels": 100352,
      "use_custom_prompt": false,
      "model_path": "IPEC-COMMUNITY/EO-1-3B"
    }
  },
  "data": {
    "EOBench": {
      "class": "EOBench",
      "dataset": "EOBench",
      "data_file": "IPEC-COMMUNITY/EO-Bench/benchmark_v1.jsonl",
      "data_root": "IPEC-COMMUNITY/EO-Bench"
    },
    "ERQABench": {
      "class": "ERQABench",
      "dataset": "ERQABench",
      "data_root": "IPEC-COMMUNITY/ERQABench",
      "data_file": "IPEC-COMMUNITY/ERQABench/benchmark_v1.jsonl"
    },
    "RoboVQA": {
      "class": "RoboVQA",
      "dataset": "RoboVQA",
      "data_root": "IPEC-COMMUNITY/RoboVQA",
      "data_file": "IPEC-COMMUNITY/RoboVQA/benchmark_v1.jsonl",
      "fps": 1
    }
  }
}
```

### Configuration Parameters

- **min_pixels**: 50176 - Minimum image resolution for processing
- **max_pixels**: 100352 - Maximum image resolution for processing
- **use_custom_prompt**: false - Use default prompting strategy
- **fps**: 1 - Frame rate for video processing (RoboVQA only)

## Running Evaluation

### Basic Evaluation

```bash
cd VLMEvalKit

# Run evaluation on all configured benchmarks
bash scripts/run.sh
```

### Custom Evaluation

```bash
# Run evaluation on specific benchmarks
python vlmeval/run.py --model EO1-3B --data EOBench
python vlmeval/run.py --model EO1-3B --data ERQABench
python vlmeval/run.py --model EO1-3B --data RoboVQA
```

### Evaluation with Custom Settings

```bash
# Run with custom batch size and device settings
python vlmeval/run.py \
  --model EO1-3B \
  --data EOBench \
  --batch_size 8 \
  --device cuda:0
```

## Results and Analysis

### Expected Output

The evaluation will generate:

- **Detailed logs** for each benchmark
- **Per-question results** with model predictions
- **Overall accuracy scores** for each benchmark
- **Performance metrics** including response time and memory usage

### Results Directory Structure

```
VLMEvalKit/
├── results/
│   ├── EO1-3B/
│   │   ├── EOBench/
│   │   ├── ERQABench/
│   │   └── RoboVQA/
│   └── logs/
```

Commit message:

Update .gitignore to exclude hf_save_pretrained.py and enhance README with integration details for EO-1 with LERobot. Refactor dataset handling in MultimodaLeRobotDataset and adjust model architecture in EO1VisionFlowMatchingModel for improved functionality. Update training utilities for better configuration management and streamline processor methods for action selection.

experiments/8_vllmeval/README.md, after:

# VLLM Evaluation on Vision-Language Benchmarks

This directory contains the implementation for evaluating EO-1 on multiple vision-language benchmarks using the VLMEvalKit framework.

## Overview

The evaluation covers three comprehensive benchmarks designed to test different aspects of vision-language understanding:

### Benchmarks

- **EO-Bench**: End-to-end evaluation benchmark for embodied AI tasks
- **ERQABench**: Embodied Reasoning and Question Answering benchmark
- **RoboVQA**: Robotic Visual Question Answering benchmark

These benchmarks test the model's ability to:

- Understand complex visual scenes and spatial relationships
- Answer questions about robotic manipulation tasks
- Reason about cause-and-effect relationships in embodied scenarios
- Process multi-modal inputs (images, videos, text) effectively

## Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Download model and datasets
bash experiments/8_vllmeval/download_all.sh

# 2. Install VLMEvalKit, TODO: pr to VLMEvalKit to add EO-1-3B model @ Xianqiang Gao
git clone https://github.com/DelinQu/VLMEvalKit
cd VLMEvalKit
pip install -e .

# 3. Configure evaluation
cp experiments/8_vllmeval/dataset-config.json VLMEvalKit/configs/

# 4. Run evaluation
bash experiments/8_vllmeval/run.sh
```

## Dataset and Model Preparation

### 1. Download EO-1-3B Model

```bash
# Install Hugging Face CLI if not already installed
pip install huggingface-cli

# Download EO-1-3B model
huggingface-cli download --resume-download --local-dir-use-symlinks False \
  IPEC-COMMUNITY/EO-1-3B \
  --local-dir EO-1-3B
```

### 2. Download Benchmark Datasets

```bash
cd YOUR_PATH_TO_DATASET

# Download all benchmark datasets
datasets=(
  ERQABench
  RoboVQA
  EO-Bench
)

HF_DATASET_HOME=YOUR_PATH_TO_DATASET

for dataset in ${datasets[@]};
do
  echo "Downloading ${dataset}..."
  huggingface-cli download \
  --repo-type dataset --resume-download --local-dir-use-symlinks False \
  IPEC-COMMUNITY/${dataset} \
  --local-dir ${HF_DATASET_HOME}/${dataset}
done
```

**Note**: The datasets are quite large (several GB each), so ensure you have sufficient disk space and a stable internet connection.

## VLMEvalKit Installation

### Install VLMEvalKit

```bash
# Clone the VLMEvalKit repository
git clone https://github.com/DelinQu/VLMEvalKit
cd VLMEvalKit

# Install in development mode
pip install -e .

# Install additional dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Verify installation
python -c "import vlmeval; print('VLMEvalKit installed successfully')"
```

## Evaluation Configuration

### Model and Dataset Configuration

Create a configuration file (`dataset-config.json`) with the following settings:

```json
{
  "model": {
    "EO1-3B": {
      "class": "EO1VisionFlowMatchingChat",
      "min_pixels": 50176,
      "max_pixels": 100352,
      "use_custom_prompt": false,
      "model_path": "IPEC-COMMUNITY/EO-1-3B"
    }
  },
  "data": {
    "EOBench": {
      "class": "EOBench",
      "dataset": "EOBench",
      "data_file": "IPEC-COMMUNITY/EO-Bench/benchmark_v1.jsonl",
      "data_root": "IPEC-COMMUNITY/EO-Bench"
    },
    "ERQABench": {
      "class": "ERQABench",
      "dataset": "ERQABench",
      "data_root": "IPEC-COMMUNITY/ERQABench",
      "data_file": "IPEC-COMMUNITY/ERQABench/benchmark_v1.jsonl"
    },
    "RoboVQA": {
      "class": "RoboVQA",
      "dataset": "RoboVQA",
      "data_root": "IPEC-COMMUNITY/RoboVQA",
      "data_file": "IPEC-COMMUNITY/RoboVQA/benchmark_v1.jsonl",
      "fps": 1
    }
  }
}
```

### Configuration Parameters

- **min_pixels**: 50176 - Minimum image resolution for processing
- **max_pixels**: 100352 - Maximum image resolution for processing
- **use_custom_prompt**: false - Use default prompting strategy
- **fps**: 1 - Frame rate for video processing (RoboVQA only)

## Running Evaluation

### Basic Evaluation

```bash
cd VLMEvalKit

# Run evaluation on all configured benchmarks
bash scripts/run.sh
```

### Custom Evaluation

```bash
# Run evaluation on specific benchmarks
python vlmeval/run.py --model EO1-3B --data EOBench
python vlmeval/run.py --model EO1-3B --data ERQABench
python vlmeval/run.py --model EO1-3B --data RoboVQA
```

### Evaluation with Custom Settings

```bash
# Run with custom batch size and device settings
python vlmeval/run.py \
  --model EO1-3B \
  --data EOBench \
  --batch_size 8 \
  --device cuda:0
```

## Results and Analysis

### Expected Output

The evaluation will generate:

- **Detailed logs** for each benchmark
- **Per-question results** with model predictions
- **Overall accuracy scores** for each benchmark
- **Performance metrics** including response time and memory usage

### Results Directory Structure

```
VLMEvalKit/
├── results/
│   ├── EO1-3B/
│   │   ├── EOBench/
│   │   ├── ERQABench/
│   │   └── RoboVQA/
│   └── logs/
```
